# Models
Option Pricing
We examine the NSE option prices on a few days by using a sample of matched high-frequency data of over a few thousand option contracts consisting of the unique SSO’s and the Nifty index options during a few days’ pre-pandemic and post- pandemic, to capture the market uncertainty and financial unpredictability. We use a stochastic volatility model to model the volatility and match the option prices.
To match the prices, we match the conformity of observed option prices to a parsimonious smile-adjusted Black model. We will estimate the smile for each underlying day, we will use a quadratic function, as it is the lowest order smile that can capture the two most important departures from lognormality observed in financial markets - fatter tails and skewness. A higher order smile might be closer to the market prices but runs the risk of overfitting [16]. We will estimate implied volatility and delta using Black’s model to eliminate the dividend yield estimation and cost-of-carry issues.
We identify the best-fitted model by recursively minimizing the sum of the squared pricing errors between the market prices of the options and the prices using implied volatility from the volatility smile. The pricing errors will be calculated as the absolute difference between the market price of the option and the estimated price from the volatility smile.
The best-fitted model thus obtained will be extended to exotic options following the same approach as above to calculate the pricing errors. This model will be compared with Black-Scholes model in terms of improvements and the performance on the said days. In doing that, the research aims to challenge the two inherent assumptions of the Black Scholes model - constant volatility and log normal distribution. This research will also attempt to give an informative view on whether the
  
discrepancies in option prices occur as a result of the market mispricing or because of incorrect theoretical assumptions of the Black–Scholes model. This study does not intend to forecast the option prices. This study also does not venture into actively coming up with trading strategies.
CONCLUSION
This research aims to find a model that best matches the option market prices to a parsimonious smile-adjusted model. We use high-frequency data from the Indian Equity Options market, which in 2017, was the world’s largest index options market. Using the best-fitted model on a few days pre-pandemic and post-pandemic allows for a rich opportunity to study the impact of financial flux, market instability and uncertainty on the option prices and how differently the model performs on the two different time-frames. The model is then contrasted in terms of accuracy and improvements with the Black- Scholes model over the said days.
